---
layout: sidebar
title: STEAM Seminar
id: steam-seminar
---

## Telling My STEAM Story—Personal Narrative

&nbsp; I was first introduced to the wonderful world of computer science and 
engineering at an FLL robotics camp in the 6th grade, where I was able to build and program a robot, and that got me hooked. One thing led to another, and who would've known that this initial start would have led to where I am now? The STEAM certificate program that I am currently pursuing is the computer science certificate. In this personal narrative I plan to explain why I chose to pursue the STEAM computer science certificate as well as how this certificate connect to my future.
&nbsp; I got this passion for computer science (and the want for the computer   
science degree) from programming FLL robots starting at that camp in middle school. This enthusiasm for programming continued in high school, where I had the opportunity to program complex autonomous routines for robots. I also got to explore more complex coding projects, such as telemetry logging for robotics, spline interpolation for points, and the ability to beta develop and work on an app.
&nbsp; A real-life situation where I faced a problem was during a local robotics
tournament in November. I was having an issue with our robot code in which the robot would freeze when the driver-controlled portion of the match started, making the robot unresponsive. This would make it so that we couldn't control the robot, which is not a very good outcome. I reached out to the programmer of Ace, Davis, hoping that he would help. Even though we were competing against each other, he agreed to try to help solve the solution, so we were able to collaborate to work on the issue. Even though it took a while, we persevered, and after a lot of problem-solving, we found a bug caused by a conflict between threads of a program library I created and the threads of another library: with threads being pseudo-concurrent processes allowing multiple parts of the code to run at once. But in this case, one of the threads was taking over and hogging all the resources. With this issue found, we were able to remove the bug, and the robot would work properly again. From this experience I learned how to work on a deeply rooted software problem collaboratively.
&nbsp; Another real-life situation in which I faced an issue was when I was
working on debugging Klipper to install on an Ender 3 3D printer with Logan. We were working collaboratively on a coding issue with installing Klipper, where we had to use problem-solving because we were having issues with the MCU not being detected when flashing the firmware because the SD card used was malformed. This unique situation had us also use critical thinking to figure out that although we were installing software, the issue was with hardware. We also had to persevere because this took us hours of debugging to finally fix. The outcome was we were able to successfully install Klipper after reformatting the SD card. What I learned from this experience was how to persevere through a difficulty even if there is no end in sight.
&nbsp; My plans after high school is to go to college as a computer science
major and, thereafter, get a job as a software engineer/developer. Earning this certificate will give me a direct advantage to help me achieve my goals by allowing me to take courses related to the subject matter, which has allowed me to further my skills in coding. It has also allowed me to develop myself as a person because these classes have allowed me to develop and work on skills and mindsets, such as problem-solving, critical thinking, innovation, perseverance, collaboration, and more. This is because of how these classes in the STEAM program were specifically designed to harp on and help me develop those skills.
&nbsp; In this narrative, I went over how I was introduced to STEAM at an early
age and continued down that path, using this mindset for school classes as well as outside of school in robotics and personal endeavors. I gave two anecdotes of how I used a STEAM mindset to solve real-world problems. As well as going over to also continue along this path in college, aiming for a computer science degree. With the important thing being that I wouldn't have been able to do these things without the STEAM mindset I developed through taking these classes in this program. I would like to again restate how influential this program was to me because it has influenced both my plans for the future and my thought processes and decisions in everyday life.
